# Prediction of circRNA‑disease associations based on the Combination of Multi-Head Graph Attention Network and Graph Convolutional Network 

Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a kind of covalently closed single-stranded RNA molecules, which has many biological functions. Previous experiments have shown that circRNAs are involved in many biological processes, especially regulatory functions. It has also been found that circRNAs are associated with complex diseases of human beings. Therefore, predicting the associations of circRNA with disease (called circRNA‑disease associations) is very useful for the disease prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. In this work, we propose a novel computational approach called GGCDA based on the Graph Attention Network(GAT) and Graph Convolutional Network(GCN) to predict circRNA‑disease associations. Firstly, GGCDA combines circRNA sequence similarity, disease semantic similarity and corresponding Gaussian interaction profile kernel similarity, and then random walk with restart algorithm (RWR) is used to obtain the preliminary features of circRNA and disease. Secondly, the graph network is constructed based on known circRNA‑disease associations network and the heterogeneous network that is constructed based on the integrated similarity of circRNA and disease. Thirdly, the multi-head graph attention network GAT is adopted to obtain different weights of circRNA and disease features, and then GCN is employed to aggregate the features of adjacent nodes in the network and the features of the nodes themselves, so as to obtain multi-view circRNA and disease features. Finally, we combined a multi-layer fully connected neural network to predict the associations of circRNA with disease. Comparison with state-of-the-art methods, GGCDA can achieve AUC values of 0.9625 and 0.9485 under the results of five-fold cross-validation on two datasets, and AUC of 0.8227 on the independent test set. Case studies further demonstrate that our approach is promising for discovering potential circRNA-disease associations.
